Patient Description:
A 49-year-old man with respiratory distress, history of coronary artery disease with prior myocardial infarctions, and recently admitted with pneumonia and respiratory failure.

SUMMARY: The patient is a 49-year-old man who was admitted to the hospital in respiratory distress, and had to be intubated shortly after admission to the emergency room. The patient’s past history is notable for a history of coronary artery disease with prior myocardial infarctions in 1995 and 1999. The patient has recently been admitted to the hospital with pneumonia and respiratory failure. The patient has been smoking up until three to four months previously. On the day of admission, the patient had the sudden onset of severe dyspnea and called an ambulance. The patient denied any gradual increase in wheezing, any increase in cough, any increase in chest pain, any increase in sputum prior to the onset of his sudden dyspnea.


ADMISSION PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
GENERAL: Showed a well-developed, slightly obese man who was in extremis.
NECK: Supple, with no jugular venous distension.
HEART: Showed tachycardia without murmurs or gallops.
PULMONARY: Status showed decreased breath sounds, but no clear-cut rales or wheezes.
EXTREMITIES: Free of edema.

ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS:
1. Respiratory arrest.
2 . End-stage chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
3. Coronary artery disease.
4. History of hypertension.

HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the Special Care Unit and intubated. He received intravenous antibiotic therapy with Levaquin. He received intravenous diuretic therapy. He received hand-held bronchodilator therapy. The patient also was given intravenous steroid therapy with Solu-Medrol. The patient’s course was one of gradual improvement, and after approximately three days, the patient was extubated. He continued to be quite dyspneic, with wheezes as well as basilar rales. After pulmonary consultation was obtained, the pulmonary consultant felt that the patient’s overall clinical picture suggested that he had a
significant element of congestive heart failure. With this, the patient was placed on increased doses of Lisinopril and Digoxin, with improvement of his respiratory status. On the day of discharge, the patient had minimal basilar rales; his chest also showed minimal expiratory wheezes; he had no edema; his heart rate was regular; his abdomen was soft; and his neck veins were not distended. It was, therefore, felt that the patient was stable for further management on an outpatient basis.
DIAGNOSTIC DATA: The patient’s admission laboratory data was notable for his initial blood gas, which showed a pH of 7.02 with a pCO2 of 118 and a pO2 of 103. The patient’s electrocardiogram showed nonspecific ST-T wave changes. The patent’s CBC showed a white count of 24,000, with 56% neutrophils and 3% bands.